RUROUNI KENSHIN : THE LEGEND ENDS
Why are you still here?
I told you to get village help.
All these can't be...
ones I killed.
Where are the bandits?
The bandits got buried here?
Everyone dead is just a body.
Boy.
Say your name.
Shinta.
It's too soft for a swordsman.
You're now
Kenshin.
I'll teach you my sword style.
This place...
Kenshin!
Battosai!
Is that the legendary
Battosai's true strength?
Kaoru-dono.
You finally woke.
Master.
It's been a while,
idiot disciple.
You brought me here?
After the storm,
I went to find driftwood.
Who knew I'd find you?
Was anyone with me?
Only that weird sword.
You're sentimental?
Which beach do I go?!
It's useless!
You slept 3 days.
Nobody survives
3 days in the sea.
Three days...
What's that look?
You haven't grown up.
You carry the world's
burdens alone?
I had a dream...
about when we first met.
Graves...
I kept digging graves...
a sea of bodies before me...
Master.
I need your help.
Teach me Hiten Mitsurugi Ogi
(Flying Heaven Secret Technique).
What?
I have a foe I must defeat.
Shishio Makoto, ex-hitokiri,
threatens this nation.
If he gains control,
many will suffer.
Ending Shishio is my mission!
There's no time.
I beg you.
Alright.
I may as well kill time.
Idiot disciple,
what did you do
the past 10 years?
Wielding that weird sword...
Show me!
- Not bad. - These are bigger.
These are nice.
What's that?
What's what?
Can't you hear it?
It's like an earthquake.
What's that?!
We've got trouble...!
What is it?
A black ship...a black ship!
What are you saying?
Were you daydreaming?
Is it a foreign ship?
Look for yourself!
The ship is like a monster!
Run...run!
TOKYO POLICE DEPARTMENT
Can we get a foreign nation's
support?
Identify the source, captain,
and ship's crew.
Yes, sir.
Could it be Shishio?
25 years ago, Admiral Perry
who visited Japan, said,
"Fear works better than friendly methods
in seeking a treaty."
Sure.
Hoji!
Prepare to land.
Understood!
Time to take over the nation!
KYOTO
Get a grip!
Should you drink so early?
Kenshin... Kaoru...
what happened to them?
Oi...were they killed...
That won't happen!
It's unforgivable.
Shinomori Aoshi!
He is now our enemy!
What's that?
Is that it?
Hiten Mitsurugi is
an independent style
only used to save
the suffering,
not for power.
But you defied my teaching
by working for the Government.
For ego? Or ambition?
Not ego nor ambition.
I chose that way
to save the suffering.
Who's this?
This fisherman saw a scar-cheeked man
wash ashore.
Is that true?
Ye... yes...
He's stubbornly alive.
Where'd that man go?
Tell me! Tell me now!
It's fine, Hoji.
I just had an idea...
even more interesting
than ruling the nation.
Shishio-sama...
What is it? What?!
They won't be rash.
Let's go!
Yes, sir!
Well, well...
We've been waiting.
Prime Minister Ito Hirobumi,
it's a great honour.
Please...
Good food.
I learned of this in my travels.
It's not poisoned.
You fought to end
the Shogunate, right?
How many?
How many did you kill
for your position?
Bastard! How dare...?
What are you doing?
He mistook the use
of dining knives.
Sit down!
Back to your seats.
Abe Naimushojo died of illness
on the way here.
Report that news.
Yes.
That's your best trick.
Burying stains on
the government.
That's politics.
So burning me was politics?
There's nothing to discuss.
I see...
Due to politics, my sweat glands
were destroyed.
My body can't cool itself.
Doctors say my body heat
could burn me up.
It's like...
the Fires of Hell.
A nation where only
the strongest survive
is Hell on Earth.
Go to hell, government dogs!
You know,
you clearly used us.
"Us?"
Me and...
Hitokiri Battosai.
If you value your life,
execute him publicly.
What?
You hid your evil deeds!
You lied Japan is
a beautiful country.
Don't justify your actions!
With him,
confess your evil deeds
to the public.
Listen!
Manslayer Battosai
is a dangerous criminal.
He's Himura Kenshin!
If you see him,
alert the police!
Average physique, red hair,
cross-shaped cheek scar.
He's implicated in
an insurrection.
He's desperate and dangerous.
If you see him,
alert the police.
You're back.
What's this?
It's Shishio's demand.
No choice.
- Shishio's demand? - Yes.
Battosai aided the government.
He's to kill Shishio;
yet you obey Shishio?
Shishio can blackmail us.
We can't confront him.
Himura isn't easy to catch.
We'll research the ship,
build a cannon, and
plan to topple Shishio!
Battosai is a pawn?
Watch your words.
Politicians forgot
a warrior's honour.
What is this?
Oi, but "Wanted by the Government"
means he's not dead?
Himura is alive?
Right, he'd be alive!
With Kaoru!
But why's he "Wanted"?
- Can't stay. Oi, Yahiko, let's go!
- Go where?
Tokyo! Kamiya dojo.
Excuse me!
He'd go there! Pack!
- Yes. - What is it?
This belongs to this inn, right?
( Aoiya Inn )
Hold still.
This is...
Oi!
Kaoru.
- Kaoru! - Ssh!
Patients are here!
Sorry.
Kaoru!
- Kaoru.
- Are you family?
Kind of.
Fishermen found her,
and brought her in.
Kaoru.
Kaoru, what happened?
Things went wrong.
If we don't go,
who'll protect him?
I told you many times...
Kenjutsu is a killing sword art.
However you gloss over it,
it's the truth.
Your shallow, naive idealism,
considering the danger you face,
and your wish to protect both sides,
is arrogant stubbornness.
Kaoru-dono.
You're still a kid
digging graves?
At your level,
can you learn the Ogi?
Train more...only then
I'll reveal it.
As a kid, you kept coming at me...
even if you got hit or beaten down.
Misao.
Grandpa.
I'm glad!
Aoshi... where is he?
Is Kyoto alright?
It's fine. But...Himura...
I see.
If Himura is alive...
there's one place he'd go.
Have a cup of sake.
I made this.
Thanks.
- Why'd you turn to pottery?
- Mm?
Who knows?
If I had to answer...
'I made the bowl
to drink sake.'
That's it.
I see.
I recall you often said...
'Spring cherry blossoms,
Summer stars'
'Autumn full moon,
Winter snow'
'make sake taste good'
'If it doesn't taste good'
'something is wrong'
Let me say something.
Your cheek scar...
In the Bakamatsu,
Hitoriki Battosai shocked Kyoto
with his cruelty.
I'd never expect it
to be you.
I started liking sake...
when I got this scar.
But drink tasted like blood.
I'll kill no longer.
This oath of yours...
involves that weird katana.
To defeat your foe
without killing?
In this state, I can't
beat Shishio or his men.
The strong survive,
the weak die.
That's plain truth.
Even if it costs my life,
I must learn the Ogi here.
Fool...
Do you plan to die...
right now?
I'll give you time...
to figure out what's
lacking in you.
Use your stupid brain
and show me.
If you don't realize
what it is...
your life will end here.
What...am I lacking?
You had a sleepless night.
Well?
Did you realize
what you lack?
No.
Is this your limit?
If you can't see your lack,
you can't win.
If you win by luck,
you won't defeat
your hitokiri self.
It mustn't win.
You'll always feel
suffering
and grief
and you'll kill again.
For this reason...
my last duty as your master...
is sending this hitokiri
to Hell.
I'm shaking.
Am I afraid of my master,
Hiko Seijuro?
No...
I fear sure death
by his sword.
Do not be afraid...
I was ready for death
long before the Bakumatsu ended.
Even if it costs my life...
I must learn the Ogi now!
I can't die yet!
I need to live!
You finally understand?
As a manslayer,
you took countless lives.
The resulting guilt
is too heavy
and you don't value
your own life.
What you just learned,
when you were
on death's brink...
is the will to live.
The will to live...
If you sacrifice yourself
to save others,
their hearts will be sad.
They won't feel happy.
Your own life
is as precious.
Only when you value your life
can you be open to the Ogi.
My life...
Your life
isn't lived for you alone.
If you understand...
come at me once more.
I want a beef pot now.
Oi!
What's that face?
Here, drink.
Shut up! Let me be.
Oi!
What? Hurry and go!
Oi! Oi, oi!
Kaoru!
Yahiko! Yahiko...
You must...stay alive!
Kaoru-dono!
Kaoru! Kaoru!
Kaoru! Oi, I found her!
- Oi! Oi! Oi...!  - Kaoru!
Kaoru, I was worried!
Right, idiot! Kaoru!
Don't worry us...
Don't strain. Are you okay?
Kenshin's coming.
Oh, really? Kenshin...
What, Kenshin? Where...?
Kenshin... Kenshin!
Stupid! She didn't mean that.
- Eh?! - She dreams of it!
Let's go!
Where'll we go?
Where do you think?
Tokyo.
Eh?
Kaoru!
Pull! Pull!
Hurry up!
Going already?
I'm out of time.
By now, Shishio must be...
Despite learning the Ogi,
don't be cocky.
You want to protect
everything yourself.
Meiji Era isn't so easy.
Yes.
Himura!
Misao-dono.
I was worried.
How'd you find here?
That doesn't matter.
Kaoru is alive!
Something bad happened.
Shishio's ship threatens
the government.
They want to arrest you.
Grandpa says it's Shishio's doing.
Hurry and go.
Your will to live
must strengthen.
Promise me, Kenshin.
Do not throw away your life.
Yes.
Master.
Thanks for your care.
Don't die.
[ Aoiya Inn ]
The Government's after you.
If found, you'll be executed.
Himura-dono.
This was Oniwabanshu's
secret way to Edo.
Please keep this.
Thank you.
Misao-dono. I'll speak
with Okina-dono.
Alright.
Grandpa.
Himura returned!
His injuries aren't healed...
You kept something from me?
When the Oniwaban
used to go east,
we'd go this way.
'Himura-kun will take this path,'
is what you're thinking.
But...Himura-kun...
has a mission...
to defeat Shishio.
You can't obstruct him.
What can you do?
You are...stuck in the past.
I will...correct this mistake.
Grandpa!
Okina!
Grandpa.
That scar...
You're Himura Battosai.
Okina!
My 10-year wait is over.
Edo Oniwabanshu,
Shinomori Aoshi.
For 'Strongest' title,
I'll take your head!
Go to Hell, Battosai!
Right, now we can go all out.
Himura!
Kill Aoshi...
for Misao's sake...and...
for Aoshi himself.
Grandpa.
Sure, kill me.
I'll see you try!
Be sure to kill him...
Make sure he dies!
Shinomori Aoshi,
aren't you the leader
Misao respected?
You want to bleed?
To take away
your 'Strongest' title,
shedding blood doesn't matter.
You...
you're no longer our leader!
Don't interfere!
Misao-dono!
Stand, Hitokiri Battosai.
To get 'Strongest' title
of the Bakamatsu,
I sacrificed everything
to defeat you.
Aoshi...
whatever your past inflicted,
how heaven your burden,
I may never know.
But...
if you ignore what is
in plain sight,
if you ignore what matters,
you won't defeat this one.
Aoshi-sama!
I want to end this
so I can move on.
When you find
what's precious to you,
if you still want
'Strongest' title,
this one will fight you,
that I will.
Miss! Okina!
Grandpa...
Grandpa! Grandpa!
Okina-dono...
Go, time's short!
Don't stop for us.
If he dies, let it
not be in vain!
Japan's future depends
on your sword!
Himura, go!
Hurry!
Go!
If you want to avenge Okina,
don't hesitate!
I don't need your sympathy.
Oblige me
by staying alive...
for Grandpa...
and the Oniwaban.
Megumi-dono.
Kenshin-san.
I was worried.
I'm fine.
- Any news of Kaoru and Sanosuke?
- Yes.
Good.
Sit. I'll get tea.
I'm in a rush.
I must stop Shishio myself.
Alright.
But, you know...
you must return alive.
I can do nothing
if you're dead
but if you survive,
I'll heal you.
Before saving others,
save yourself.
- My master's same words.
- Eh?
Wait a moment.
Wear these.
The sword isn't for killing.
Kamiya Kasshin style
is to protect people.
A sword shouldn't kill.
A sword protects...
Indeed, those clothes suit you.
Take care of Kaoru and Yahiko.
Arrest him!
Himura Battosai, surrender!
Police surround this Dojo!
You can't escape.
- Surrender now! - Surrender now!
All of you!
How dare you?!
Megumi-dono.
You wanted him to kill Shishio...
now you obey Shishio?
If you want Kenshin,
kill me first!
Arrest him!
Megumi-dono, stay back.
Get him!
I'm grateful.
Kenshin! Kenshin!
Enough.
I've no reason to fight you.
Seize him!
Get him!
Ken-san!
It's done!
Kenshin-san!
Tie him up!
News! News!
Hitokiri Battosai was caught!
Legendary Manslayer Battosai
has been caught!
It's about to begin.
Your body's warmer than usual.
Yes.
You must heed advice.
What is it?
Normal body sweat
regulates temperature.
But, after your burns...
How long?
How much time for me?
The doctor said
15 minutes limit.
So personally avoid battle.
15 minutes?
That's enough.
Kneel!
At attention!
Follow me.
Excuse me.
Ito-san.
I hoped you'd buy us more time.
I'm sorry, Himura.
I must sacrifice you.
You always meant to.
Shishio's aim isn't blackmail.
He'll take over the nation.
He's counting on your murders
in the Meiji era
to lead to your punishment.
That's his aim.
He has a giant ship
on the Tokyo coast.
If we fight him now,
Tokyo will incur heavy damage.
Ito-san.
Will you kill me this way?
If I can get to Shishio,
I can beat him.
Is that so.
Interesting.
Go ahead.
I'll give you a legendary ending.
'Hitokiri Battosai arrested'
'public beheading'
Are you kidding me?!
What's this public execution?!
What are they doing?!
I must go to him. Come, hurry!
Pull right!
Make way!
Murderer! Monster!
Murderer!
Pay with your life!
Kenshin!
You monster! Die!
Where is Shishio?
I'll witness your end
on his behalf.
Stupid man...
to be killed by the Government
you helped form.
Your efforts went unrewarded.
Tell Shishio
I'll wait for him in Hell.
Think you can fight there.
Wait!
- Oi, Kenshin!
Move!
Oi! Kenshin!
Wait. Kenshin! Wait!
This man, during the 3 years
of the Bunkyu era...
and the chaotic Shogunate ending,
in the final days of Edo,
took more lives than could
be counted...
What is it?
Hurry up!
Himura Battosai!
His cruel actions
will be punished in this new era!
Shut up!
Those killed by Battosai...
No...
I will read the names of
those innocent ones!
These are their names:
Kujo Kesudai.
Tsutsui Naoi.
First son of Madero Koji family,
Oguri Atsumori.
Kujo Kao, samurai.
Squad leader,
Shimamura Tatsumasa.
Izan Koyowadan.
Matsumura Korosuke.
Kajuno Katsumasa.
Nagano Kitsusuke.
Hikone squad leader,
Imoto Tamaroshi.
Akizuki Tokuba.
Kanbei Tado.
Squad leader, Toda Goemon.
And another squad leader,
Makino Hitoshi.
First son of a family,
Takigawa Masahiko.
Inoue Kagehiro.
And a young Kyoto samurai
about to marry...
Kiyosato Akira!
You're getting married
in these times?
I'm sorry.
Some victims were young,
with bright futures.
He acted too cruelly!
Because of his criminal record,
we now execute him in public!
I...I can't die!
I have a loved one.
I can't die here!
I can't die... can't die...
If you can't work out
what you lack,
your inner self that's hitokiri
will never be defeated.
You'll always feel
suffering,
and grief...
and you'll kill again.
I will no longer...kill.
The Legend...ends!
Kenshin!
Never again...
Your life is also precious.
Before saving others,
save yourself.
Never...
Wait!
Stop!
The show's over.
Himura-san!
What can a child's toy do?
It's not a child's toy.
My oath to "not kill"
is my sakabato.
Let's go.
Yeah.
Retreat! To the ship!
Damn you! Damn you!
Kenshin!
Sano.
Stop worrying us!
Kaoru-dono and Yahiko?
Ah, they're fine.
We're gonna kill you!
Prepare the boat!
Kenshin!
You'll get on that?
Yes.
Why waste your life, huh?
Someone... must...
for...the new era!
What new era?!
Well done.
Prepare to fire!
Fire!
Kenshin!
Kenshin.
Who're you...?
Bandage Man, come out!
Go ahead, Kenshin!
Damn.
Oi, you okay? Hang on!
What'd you do?
I've fought Christians
but you're my first monk.
Ow, it really hurts.
You're Shishio's comrade?
Comrade?
Idiot!
All we have in common is
our Meiji Government enemy.
A man who fears the West and
distrusts the Government... Sadojima Hoji.
A sad woman exiled by Meiji Government
...Komagata Yumi.
An abused concubine's son
who, emotionally numbed,
smilingly killed his family
...Seta Sojiro.
We gathered around Shishio
for our own dreams...
I dislike the Government
but peace was hard to get.
How can you destroy it?!
It's been a while.
Glad you're unharmed.
- No time to chat.
- Stubborn!
Where is Shishio?
You can't defeat him.
He's a beast.
You got faster.
Since you trained to face me,
I should honour your efforts.
I'm not dead, damn monk!
Huh?
Huh...huh? Strange...
Don't rely on strength to win.
So frustrating!
The strong prey on the weak.
The strong live, the weak die!
The strong live...
The strong...
The weak die.
The strong live...
the weak die!
That's all!
The fight is over.
I...
I was wrong?
No.
It's just Shishio's theory
that strength wins.
If one or two fights
determined strength,
the world would be simpler.
The answer is up to you.
Find your own answers.
Take this!
See you later!
It was fun.
Train more...!
What?!
Keep firing!
Fire!
Wait! It's not time!
Who told you to fire?!
Himura and the rest
are on the ship.
Keep firing!
Don't tell me
it's Ito-sama's order?!
Hoji.
Butt out.
Yes.
We meet again...
senpai (Senior).
I made you wait.
You're wounded?
How can you fight me?
See for yourself.
How long will this fight last.
To the Government,
you and I are the same.
They aim to drown us both
in the sea.
Let's end this.
Shishio-sama is powerful!
That's all you've got, senpai?
Magnificent!
Hoi, hoi!
You're not done already?
Aaah...
Saito-san? Been a while.
You came to defeat me?
I'm here for the end.
Don't brag.
So what you got for me?
It's useless against Shishio-sama!
This ends you.
The end, huh?
Too bad, Saito-san!
Hoi!
That's him?! Shishio!
Wait, Hoji, do something!
You can't...!
Move!
Huh?!
Don't butt in! What are you?
That's useless!
What are you?
Get up!
You're no match for me.
That can't be all.
Everyone's that weak?
Don't strain, senpai.
It's time to end it.
Who are you? Another lost dog?
Battosai is mine.
Aoshi...
No-one else can kill him!
Kenshin!
What? I said to butt out!
Don't interfere!
Die!
Butt out!
You're in the way!
Get away!
Bastards! Go to hell!
Bastards! Sinking us too?!
Bunch of garbage!
Kenshin, out of the way!
Son-of-a...
If that's how it is...
Die!
My high body heat...
got higher!
I'm having so much fun!
No, his time limit's up!
Shishio-sama!
Stop now!
He can no longer fight.
Don't let him suffer.
Please...
You're careless.
The fight hasn't ended.
You...how can you...
betray your love?
Betray?
Don't judge me by your standards.
So happy...
For the first time...
I was of use...in battle.
Wait for me in Hell.
Ke...Kenshin...
Enough!
I'll end the likes of you.
Then come!
Get up...
Hoi...
Get up!
Shishio...
For you and me,
the hitoriki age has ended.
It hasn't ended
as long as I wield
this Unlimited Blade.
It has ended...
the moment I wield this sakabato!
Go ahead.
This is the end!
Hiten Mitsurugi Ogi...
Heaven Soaring Dragon Flash.
Don't forget, Himura.
This era chose you,
that's all.
I have not lost.
It's a while since I had
such an enjoyable fight.
I last had this much fun
in the Bakamatsu.
I need to take over the nation!
I have no more time to play.
See you in Hell,
Battosai!
Shishio Makoto...
Goodbye.
Let me go!
Stop it!
Let go!
Kenshin!
- I'll help. - Yahiko.
You're alive.
It's great you're okay.
Aoshi-sama!
It was tough on you.
Glad you're okay.
What'd you say?! We didn't fight for you!
Sano!
Shishio is dead.
Be satisfied.
So...
Shishio is dead.
The nation is safe now, Kawaji.
Yes.
Battosai is dead!
Dead with the Bakumatsu!
Himura
Kenshin...
right?
Salute the samurai!
Kenshin.
Let's go home.
The season is changing.
Your past as Battosai...
is fading.
That's a beautiful leaf.
I'll keep living like this.
Keep living...
in this new era.
Kaoru-dono...
Watch over this era with me?
Eh?
So they say that time
takes away the pain
but I'm still the same
And they say that I
will find another you-
that can't be true, oh
Why didn't I realize?
Why did I tell lies?
Yeah, I wish that I could do it again
Turning back the time
back when you were mine
(all mine)
So this is heartache?
hiroi atsumeta koukai wa namida e to kawari oh baby
(regrets I gathered change into tears, oh baby)
So this is heartache?
ano hi no kimi no egao wa omoide ni kawaru
(your smile from that day becomes a memory)
I miss you
boku no kokoro wo yuuitsu mitashite satte yuku kimi ga
(you, the only one to fill my heart, are leaving)
boku no kokoro ni yuuitsu furerareru koto ga dekita kimi wa
(you, the only one who could touch my heart)
Oh baby mou inai yo mou nanimo nai yo
(Oh baby, you're no more, nothing exists any more)
Yeah, I wish that I could do it again
Turning back the time
back when you were mine
(all mine)
So this is heartache?
hiroi atsumeta koukai wa namida e to kawari oh baby
(regrets I gathered turn into tears, oh baby)
So this is heartache?
ano hi no kimi no egao wa omoide ni kawaru
(your smile from that day becomes a memory)
I miss you, it's so hard to forget
kataku musunda sono musubime wa
(the tightly tied knot)
Yeah, so hard to forget
tsuyoku hikeba hiku hodo ni
(as hard as it is pulled)
You and all the regret
hodokenaku natte hanarere naku natta
(is unable to be unknotted)
ima wa tsurai yo sore ga tsurai
now it hurts, this hurts
sugu wasuretai yo kimi wo
(I want to forget you quickly)
So this is heartache?
hiroi atsumeta koukai wa namida e to kawari oh baby
(regrets I gathered turn into tears, oh baby)
So this is heartache?
ano hi no kimi no egao wa omoide ni kawaru
(your smile from that day becomes a memory)
I miss you